# [★★★☆☆] Propagation of A Planar Wave

In this example, we demonstrate an example of wave propagation in a 2D solid.

Essentially, it is a 2D dynamics problem. The [CP4](../../Library/Element/Membrane/Plane/CP4.md) element is used to
model the solid.
Various time integration methods will be used to compare their performance regarding numerical energy dispersion.

The model script can be downloaded [here](wave-propagation.supan).

**This model contains 16641 nodes and 16384 elements. The memory usage is about 1.2 GB.**

**Due to small step size and need to export visualization data, the full analysis takes around 20 minutes to complete on
an average PC platform (6 physical cores @ 3 GHz).**

## Model

A square solid of size $$3200\times3200$$ is used. The structured mesh can be generated by using whatever mesh generator
available. It is not difficult to generate an array of squares using scripting languages such as Python or Matlab.
Here, [Gmsh](https://gmsh.info/) is used.

The left and right boundary are constrained along the horizontal direction. The bottom boundary is constrained along the
vertical direction. A concentrated vertical load is applied at the centre of the top boundary.

### Material

Whether plane stress or plane strain assumption is adopted is not the focus of this example, we simply use a plane
stress element with a unit thickness.

### BC

The boundaries can be extracted by [generating](../../Collection/Define/generate.md) node groups.

### Time Integration

We use both implicit and explicit time integration methods.

#### Implicit

The implicit time integration methods are the default.
If no integrator is defined, a default [Newmark](../../Library/Integrator/Newmark/Newmark.md) integrator will be used.

An implicit integrator shall be used with an implicit step.

```text
step ImplicitDynamic 1 4
# or just
# step Dynamic 1 4
```

#### Explicit

Most explicit methods use acceleration as the primary variable, the equations of motion are often expressed as a
function of acceleration.
This differs from implicit methods that often use displacement as the primary variable.
In order to adopt such a difference, one needs to define an `ExplicitDynamic` step, similar to the setting in ABAQUS.

```text
step ExplicitDynamic 1 4
```

Please be aware that most displacement-based constraints **cannot** be used in explicit analysis.

#### Other Settings

Since we are using a linear elastic material with the CP4 elements.
The elemental stiffness is symmetric.
As there are no other non-linear constraints defined in the model, the global stiffness/mass matrix is also symmetric.
It is possible to then turn on symmetric banded storage to save memory space.

Also, since the system is linear, the global stiffness/mass matrix does not change once assembled.
It is possible to indicate the solver to skip iterations.

```text
set symm_mat 1
set band_mat 1
set linear_system 1
```

## Results